# Project-439
5 MW Wind Power Project by M/s Transport Corporation of India Limited (TCIL) at Rajasthan

1st CoU Issuance Period: 16.06.2013 to 31.12.2023(10 Year 6 Month 15 Days)

1st Monitoring Period: 16.06.2013 to 31.12.2023(10 Year 6 Month 15 Days)

1st Crediting Period: 16.06.2013 to 31.12.2023(10 Year 6 Month 15 Days)

The project activity titled 5 MW Wind Power Project by M/s Transport Corporation of India
Limited, (TCIL) is renewable (wind) energy projects located at the following locations in
Country: India: 

________________
Sr No /Name of Wind Farm/Installed Capacity (MW)/ State /District 
______
Site 01/Transport Corporation of India Limited /5 MW /Rajasthan / Jaisalmer /Soda-MadaBaramsar

Location /COD/ Village/ District/ State
___________________
J227 / 30 September 2004 / Soda-Mada  /Jaisalmer / Rajasthan
____________________
J228 /30 September 2004 / Soda-Mada / Jaisalmer / Rajasthan
____________
J70 / 16 June 2003 / Baramsar / Jaisalmer / Rajasthan
___________
J71 / 16 June 2003 / Baramsar / Jaisalmer / Rajasthan

The wind farm is owned by Transport Corporation of India Limited, TCIL (Project Proponent or
PP).The total installed capacity of the Transport Corporation of India Limited Wind Project is
5 MW wind power project in Rajasthan. The Transport Corporation of India Limited Wind
Projects consists of 4 WTGs. The entire Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) are
provided by M/S Suzlon Energy Ltd.

The generated electricity from the WTGs is grid connected wind power project located in SodaMada and Baramsar village of Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan (India). The purpose of this plant
installation to supply electricity to regional Grid. The wind power projects are operational
activities with continuous reduction of GHGs, currently being applied for voluntary carbon offset
units (CoUs) under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR).

In the absence of the project activity, electricity would have been delivered to the grid by the
operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new fossil fuelbased generation sources in the Grid. As is the nature of wind projects (renewable energy), no
fossil fuel is involved for power generation in the project activity. The electricity produced by the
project is directly contributing to climate change mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs, i.e., CO2) into the atmosphere by displacing an equivalent
amount of power at grid.

Metering equipment:
 All the metering equipments, including transformers, control and relay/ protection panels, metering,
HT lines from the point of generation to the nearest pooling station/ technically feasible point
determined by RVPNL/ Jodhpur Discom as well as their maintenance will be undertaken by the PP or
in association with other PPs/ any other agency as per the specifications and the requirements of the
RVPNL/ Jodhpur Discom, for which PP(s) shall bear the entire cost. The electricity generated by all
the WEGs of the project is being exported through the evacuation facilities to the state owned utility
(RVPNL). 

Metering at substation:
 Metering of net electricity exported is done at the Grid Interconnection point. There are two energy
meters placed at each grid interconnection point - Main meter and Check meter. The Main meter is
used to calculate the net electricity exported by the WEGs to the Grid and the Check meter is used to
cross check the above readings.
 The meter recording of the electricity fed to the state utility grid will be carried out jointly (by both
RVPNL & the PP(s) representative) at the respective incoming feeders (metering points) of the state
electricity utility (RVPNL).
 Meter reading taken jointly will be signed by the representatives of the RVPNL and/or Jodhpur
Discom and of PP in the Joint Monitoring Report (JMR). If PP’s representative is not present, then
the RVPNL and/or Jodhpur Discom shall provide PP with a signed copy of the meter reading within
twenty four (24) hours of such reading of the Main Meter or Check Meter as the case may be
 Breakup sheet is prepared by the EPC contractor i.e. “Suzlon Energy Limited” to show the generation
of individual turbines/ investors and this individual generation is calculated using apportioning
(explained later in the monitoring plan). 

As per the Schedule 1 of Ministry of Environment and Forests (Government of India) notification dated
January 27, 1994, - 30 activities are required to undertake environmental impact assessment studies. The
details of these activities are available at:
http://envfor.nic.in/divisions/iass/notif/eia.htm

The proposed project doesn’t fall under the list of activities requiring EIA as it will not involve any
negative environmental impacts, as the WEGs installed for generation of power use wind (cleanest
possible source of renewable energy), thus no EIA study was conducted.

The installations of Baramsar and Soda Mada wind farm have been carried out on barren land owned by
the revenue department of the state government. The state government has leased out the land to for a
period of 19 years for erection and commissioning of WEGs. All the necessary clearances from the revenue department have been obtained for commissioning and
operation of wind farm. The Baramsar and Soda Mada villages are nothing but scattered hamlets of few habitants residing near the
project site. The villagers have been apprised by the state government revenue department about the wind
farm prior to leasing out the land.
_______________
PRIOR HISTORY

CDM Project 0267 : 5 MW Wind Power Project at Baramsar and Soda Mada, district Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, India.

Sectoral scopes	1 : Energy industries (renewable - / non-renewable sources)
Activity Scale	SMALL

Methodologies Used	AMS-I.D. ver. 7 - Renewable electricity generation for a grid

Amount of Reductions	5,804 metric tonnes CO2 equivalent per annum

CDM Registration Date	14 Apr 06

CDM Crediting Period	16 Jun 03 - 15 Jun 13 (Fixed)
______________
Monitoring Period: 16 Jun 2003 - 01 Jul 2006 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 12600

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-17782123-1-1-0-267      Block end: IN-5-17794722-1-1-0-267
_____________________________

Monitoring Period: 02 Jul 2006 - 01 Sep 2008 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 12674

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-117715759-1-1-0-267      Block end: IN-5-117728432-1-1-0-267
__________________________

Monitoring Period: 02 Sep 2008 - 30 Jun 2011 

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 14183

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-186467819-1-1-0-267      Block end: IN-5-186482001-1-1-0-267
____________________________

Monitoring Period: 01 Jul 2011 - 15 Jun 2013

Issuance request state: Issued

CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 6475

CERs requested from 01 Jan 2013 until 31 December 2020: 1694

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-305219022-1-1-0-267      Block end: IN-5-305225496-1-1-0-267

Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-305225497-2-2-0-267      Block end: IN-5-305227190-2-2-0-267
_____________________________


